Hi there! In this video,
we're going to take a closer look at how we add
images to our HTML pages.
We'll explore how to load an image,
and how to give it a good alternate text value,
and a good title value,
as well as how to adjust the size of the image on
a page using 'height' and 'width' attributes.
We've all heard the phrase that
a picture paints a thousand words.
Well, images are a very important part
of any Web page design.
They enhance the visual appeal of a page,
can create excitement or interest about our content,
and can have an impact on
the message we are sending our readers.
Let's load our first image.
To define an image on a page,
we use the image element.
Now this is a self closing tag,
meaning that it doesn't require an end tag.
To define the image, we go inside
the image tag and we set some attributes.
One of the key attributes
to set is the source attribute,
which tells the browser the location of
the image and before I set
this let's have a look at
the images on my local machine.
As you can see my "images.html",
which is this page,
is here on my local machine.
And at the same level on my desk,
I have this "images" folder which is
a good practice for gathering all the images I
want to use on my web page
or Web site into this single folder.
Inside this "images" folder,
I have lots of images,
some of them are png and jpg files and as you can
imagine any modern browser can
support these image types and can show the images.
So the image I want to use
is located in this "images" folder
and it's called "beach.png".
So that's the value I will set here in my HTML page.
I'll set the location to be: "images/beach.png"
So that's a relative path,
it's telling the browser that they'll find this image,
in an "images" folder and it's called, beach.png.
So when I "Save" my file,
there you go, I have loaded my first image.
Let's talk now about the 'alt' attribute
and why we add alternate text.
The 'alt' attribute is important because
it offers an alternate source of
information about this image
for those who cannot see the image.
This text is read aloud by
screen reader software for those
with impaired vision or disabilities.
And search engines can't see the image either,
so they rely on the alt text
to understand what the image is about.
This text is also displayed to the user if,
for some reason, the browser can't display your image.
So for all of these reasons make sure you supply a
good descriptive alt text for every image.
Now what text you supply depends
on the type of image you are displaying.
If the image is just a background or a decorative image,
you might not want to describe it with
this text and instead let the screen reader skip over it.
But for functional images or images
containing or supporting information for your page,
you should always apply this alt text.
Now, while the image we have in front of us
here could be decorative,
what of is being shown on the page that is,
renting a beach house,
and this is a view from the backyard.
In that case, I would provide
a description that conveys the meaning of the image.
I think this would be a good alternate attribute value.
So here what I've said is:
"Enjoy the magnificent view of the beach and
the sea from this oceanfront cottage."
So, let's show the alt text
in action when the browser can't load my image.
To do that, I'm going to break the link on
the page by pointing to
a location or file that doesn't exist.
So for example, if I have a typo here,
and that now is a file that doesn't exist on my disk,
so as you can see,
when the link for the image
points to a file that doesn't exist,
our alt text is displayed nice and clearly on the page.
So this is the view that you would see.
It's not ideal but at least you still get
some information and can continue with the page.
So that's the alt text attribute.
So let's go ahead and
repair our link so we can see the image again.
I'll just change it back to
the original value, and
I'll move this down so we can see it.
So the next attribute that I'd like to talk
to you about is the 'title' attribute.
Now this is a global attribute and it's
supported by the image element.
It's used to convey more information about the image.
So for example, if I type in,
'title=' and then paste in
some descriptive text it says,
"Oceanfront view from
the Surfers Paradise rental cottage, California."
And what happens is, if I sav my page,
nothing looks like it happened over on the page.
But if I hover over the actual image,
now I get that information.
So this is a visual element that is displaying
more information about the actual image in question.
So that's the 'title' attribute.
Now let's have a look at how you adjust
the size of the image on our page.
For that I'm going to need a bigger image.
So to save time I'll just "Paste" in
a new image and "Save" my page.
And as you can see this is a new image,
smiley.jpg and if I scroll down you can see whooo,
this is a very large image.
So, what can we do?
Well we can easily fix this with
the help of the 'width' and 'height' attributes.
While I use this attribute 'width',
I'll have to define this in pixels.
So you may have heard the term pixel before.
It's just a unit of measurement for computer screens.
Each screen is made up of millions of
these tiny squares called pixels.
For example, my monitor that you see
here is 1920 by 1080,
meaning it's a thousand nine hundred and twenty
pixels tall and a thousand eighty pixels wide.
So let's try 'width' value in
pixels and I'll pick something small.
Say, 300, and I'll "Save" my image.
And after I just scroll down you can see
my image is actually showing.
So again if I remove the 'width', "Save" again,
you can see the image is in its native size but
if I was to set the 'width',
you can see the image shrinks down to a nice size.
You also notice that I've only defined a new 'width'
attribute value but the height
of the image has also been adjusted.
Well that's because the browser tries to
maintain the aspect ratio of the image.
So, I could define a 'height' attribute as well.
And when I "Save" my image,
when I scroll down you can see that the image height has
changed and the image looks
squashed because I've changed the aspect ratio,
the height to width ratio.
So I'll just remove that once more,
and there we have a smaller image.
So that's changing the size of an image using
the 'width' and 'height' attributes.
Finally, I'd like to show you how to load remote images.
Up until this point we've loaded images
located on a path relative to our page.
As you can see here the smiley.jpg
image is in a folder called
"images" relative to this page called images.html
However, the real power of the Web is to be able to
gather information from across the Internet.
And all we need to do is supply an address.
This time, I'll "Paste" one in and as you can see,
this is just a URL and it's
telling the browser to find this image located at
this site and
gist.githubsercontent.com/AndrewJburn, etc., etc.
At the end of this long URL is
just the name of my image, image001/png.
And when I "Save" my file and we scroll down,
you can see that that image has been loaded from
this remote site into our Web page.
So, that's it.
In this video, we'd fun with images,
the image tag and its attributes.
So, you're all set to spice up
your pages with some images. Take care!