Welcome. In this demo,
I'm going to show how you can use the developers tools in
your browser to modify your HTML elements, and
their attribute values, as well as your CSS properties
and their values to make modifications to your Web page,
immediately see their effect on the page.
And when you become happy with the values you have
experimented with, and you
have reached the results you want,
you can take those values to your code,
save them and have the page
render the same way every time.
So, if you recall from
the previous lesson that the way to
bring up the developers tools of your browser
is to either press F12 in your keyboard, or use
the mouse to inspect any of
the elements or the sections on your Web page.
So I'm going to go with that approach
here, and right click anywhere on my page,
and it shows "Inspect Element",
which is not bring up the developer's tools for me.
I'm using Microsoft Edge
as my browser today in this demo.
And as you can see,
I did a right click on this list item here,
so it brought up the developers tools for me, and it was
highlighted on this particular element
I choose to inspect.
So, for this demo I'm thinking,
maybe I will change
this image here to show you how you can
modify your values in
your tags and see them right away on the Web page.
So I'm going to go to my image here,
and I'm thinking to use
another image other than this one.
So, to do a modification on the HTML tag,
you'll just go to the tag you would like to change,
double click on it so it brings you up in an edit mode.
I know that I have another image in this tag,
it just has another filename,
so I'm going to move this filename here, and use
the other image I know I have it here.
So, I do my modifications and then press "Enter".
And I should see the changes right away on the Web page.
So I see this seagull bird here,
but it doesn't really work
well for that context of my page so
I'm going to put it back to the right image here.
And this is how you can modify your HTML elements.
One more thing you can modify in
the developer's tools is the tyles, the CSS styles.
And there is a pane
for that here in
the developers tools, so on the right here,
this is the pane for your CSS values.
So I'm here on this image tag.
It's highlighted, so that means it is selected,
so I can change the width.
So as you see here,
it's set to 400 pixels.
I can change this value again by right clicking on it,
and let's say I'm going to do 1000.
See how changing the value changes
the width of the image on the page right away, and you get
to see your modifications right away.
So, this is a nice tool to try different values.
If you're not happy with how your page is rendered,
you can try different values
here in the developer's tools.
And once you're settled and happy with the results,
you can copy those values to your code.
So, I'm going to click this back to 400.
There is also an option here to uncheck a style so that
it deletes or it takes away from the effect,
so it's basically ineffective here.
I'm going to put it back.
There is also a way to try new stuff,
so let's try new styles.
So let's say, for example,
I want to make a background.
I want to make a highlight on
this module because it's really important.
So I'm gonna go to it and I'm going to select "Elements".
I'm going to select this element,
brings me up to where it is in the code.
I'm gonna try a background style
on it and see how it looks like.
And you see in Microsoft Edge developers tools,
there is an IntelliSense here that really comes handy and
helpful so that you don't need to memorize
every single CSS property or style.
So I'm going to use a background of
yellow, maybe light yellow is better.
So you see your styles,
the styles get rendered on the page right away,
and this is really cool.
And I think I also want to apply a font color here.
So, I'm going to change the color of this one to,
how about red, or orange red?
So you see how it's like your values
get rendered on the page right away.
Also, you can remove one of the properties,
or keep them, or remove them both.
And as you see here on this pane here,
as you put a style into effect,
it gets added to the tag.
So this is another way to tell you,
if you want to keep this style,
you should change your HTML code to add
this style attribute to your tag.
That's it for this demo,
and I'll see you in the next one.