Hello and welcome to
Module 4 of HTML5 and CSS Fundamentals Course.
As you know, in this module we're going to cover
parts for debugging your HTML page,
identify where HTML elements are in your code,
how they are rendered on the page
if you need to fix something.
And to start with that,
we need to learn the tool that
you are going to use to do that.
Microsoft Edge, which is
the browser we're using in this demo,
we have developer tools which similarly come in most of
the browsers and modern browsers now.
And those developer tools are
usually evoked or initiated by
pressing F12 on your keyboard,
or by going anywhere on your Web page,
right click, and choose
"Views Source", or "Inspect Element".
Both of these options should bring up
the developer's tools in your browser.
So I'm going to say "Inspect Element",
which brings up this part here in my browser,
which is basically the developer's tools.
And as you see here in Microsoft Edge,
it's divided into tabs for Console,
Debugger Network, Performance and others.
For our course, we're only
concerned with this tab here, the DOM Explorer,
and as you may know,
DOM stands for the Document Object Model,
which is basically the building parts of
your Web page which
is basically your HTML elements and tags.
The view in this tab is divided into two parts.
The right part here is concerned with
the styles of your elements,
which come from the CSS properties
and CSS values you're using on the page.
There is Styles here and there is
Computed Styles and Layout which we
are going to cover later in
this course and other modules and in this module as well.
So now, for the DOM elements, as you may see,
there is a lot of parts that get
highlighted as I move my mouse over here,
which is how you're going to
identify your HTML parts of the page.
So, these are two buttons here in this tab.
So the first button here is to select element.
So when you press on this one and
you go hover over our
"Select Any Element" on your page and hover over it,
you'll see that this is considered a part.
There is a tag for this.
There is a tag for this, and
there's a tag for this, and so on.
So when you hover over them, they get highlighted.
But if you want to see where it is in your HTML code,
you get to click on it.
So I want to investigate or see
the HTML code that's responsible for
this bullet point or list item here.
So I'm going to click on it, so it
brings me here to where that is.
I see it's an anchor tag that's inside the list item.
And this is a list item in an unordered list.
So, as you may see here,
as I move my mouse in the code also,
the parts and the page get highlighted.
So this is the other way round like if
you're looking at code
and you don't know where that is in the page,
so you're just move your mouse
or hover over those elements in the code, and
they get highlighted on the page, and then you
get to see where they are or how they are rendered.
So, these are the two useful explorers
or investigation points in
your DOM Explorer that help you identify where
your HTML elements are in
the code, and how they are rendered on the Web page.
That's it for this demo,
and I will see you in the next one.